## IDTreeS for 6.883

This repository is to work on the IDTreeS project.

### Organization
Some organizational notes:
- Documents pertaining to the ID TRees Competition can be found /docs/
- The paper write up can be found in /paper/
- Data can be found in /data/
- Helper function and utility functions can be found in /utils/

### Definitions

Here are some acronym's and definitions that will be used:

| ITC | Individual Tree Crown | 
| NEON | National Ecological Observation Network |
| RS | Remote Sensing |
| TOS | Terrestrial Observation System |


### ID TreeS Competition

The IDTreeS competition is the basis for this project. As can be found under documents, the project contains data on **ITC data** and **NEON field data**. The competition's two tasks are **Delineation of Tree Crowns** and **Classification**.

#### Tasks
1. **Delineation of Tree Crowns**: Participants are given labeled ITCs in the training dataset and must generate ITCs for the test dataset.
2. **Classification**: Participants are given ITCs labeled with the taxonomic species labels, and must generate taxonomic species predictions for unclassified ITCs.


#### Datasets

The three datasets used are:
1. **ITC Field Data**: This data is considered the most accurate validation data. They are collected in the field by surveyors. The data is RGB images with bounding boxes and taxonomic specie labels. Used for both task (1) and (2).
2. **ITC Image-only Data**: This data is considered the best available data without going out to the field. They are generated by individuals identifying tree crown boundaries using NEON RS data. They use RGB, lidar, and hyperspectral images. Used as training data for task (1) and for defining the crown boundaries for task (2).
3. **NEON field Data**: Field data collected by the NEON-TOS personnel.


Tasks and datasets used:

- **Task 1:**
    - Training:  **ITC Image-only Data**
    - Test: **ITC Field Data**

- **Task 2:**
    - Training: **ITC Image-only Data** for delineation and **NEON field Data**, vegetation structure data for specie labels.
    - Test: **ITC Field Data**



### Goal

The goal for this repository is to work on task (2), classification of the delineated tree crowns.